okay to make the adjustment on the valve
this engine has four valves two intake
and two exhaust for each cylinder the
intake on the intake side of the engine
the exhaust on the exhaust side the two
valve used different clearances the
exhaust valve using more clearance
because they have a tendency to be
hotter in order to check the clearance
you select a proper clearance from your
feeler gauge and that should be between
51 and 57 I believe for the intakes
height and you slide that between the
rocker arm and the camshaft and it
should fit snugly without any excess
FreePlay so we're gonna slide it in
there between the rocker arm and a
camshaft and then we're gonna break the
12 millimeter nut free and the valve is
adjusted with a slot in the center and
while holding that retaining nut in
place you turn clockwise to tighten the
valve clearance or counterclockwise to
loosen it
we'll adjust each one go down to our
snug and then the feeler gauge fits
snugly once we've got adjusted correctly
then we'll tie tighten down that locking
nut and then recheck it again and we'll
do that on each valve you can break them
free with a 12 millimeter socket it
gives you a little bit better torque and
with the extension you got better
accessibility but when it comes time for
tightening 12 millimeter boxing wrench
works best because you have to have
clearance to get the adjustment slot in
the top while you're holding the nut you
could use an opening box wrench but it
has a tendency to slide off easier than
a box and see it's difficult here to get
the right angle with the socket
accessibility can be a little different
difficult so once I've broken retaining
that free then I'm gonna just this
center tip becomes snug tight checking
the feeler gauge wood
do you just want to feel good drag or
tension on that just like you've lightly
sandwich between the two and what I like
to do is turn down cluck I'll back it
off first counterclockwise and I'll turn
down tightening clockwise until becomes
snug and then I give it maybe about 15
to 20 degrees further and I found that
to work really well and then while
holding the sinner in place you don't
want to turn the centerpiece while
you're tightening down the retaining net
because that changes our clearance and
while you're holding place you can go
ahead and tighten down and retaining
that after you've got it snug then you
need to recheck your clearance again and
to do this go ahead and pull the speed
of the gauge all the way out
check the FreePlay again and slide it
back in and that make sure that you
don't have any debris they might got
hung up underneath something during your
adjustment and if it fits real snugly
going back in got a good bit of drag
then that means that valve is properly
adjusted so that concludes part 1 of
adjusting valves please watch our next
segment on part 2 of Justin valve